= RDBI - Basic Database Access Re-imagined.

RDBI is intended primarily as an alternative to the heavier database layers in
the ruby ecosystem. 

Here are some important pieces of information about RDBI that you may find
compelling (or off-putting. We're pragmatists.):

* RDBI is, at the time of this writing, less than a thousand lines of code.
* RDBI is light and fast. Eventually we will show you benchmarks.
* RDBI can be tested without a database, or even a database driver.
* RDBI is threadsafe.
* RDBI can transform your results through a driver system. Want a CSV? Use the
  CSV driver, don't bother transforming it yourself. Drivers can be
  independently installed and used.
* RDBI contains no monkeypatching, core extensions, or other hell that will
  conflict with your other libraries.
* RDBI is architected around properties of a relational database, but there is
  nothing in it that demands one -- use it with Mongo or Redis if you want.
* RDBI database drivers are *small* -- our sqlite driver is about 150 lines and
  our postgresql driver is about 300. Our mock driver is about 50.
* RDBI has an active community of experienced (in some instances, 5-10 years)
  ruby and rails programmers.

Here are some things that it does:

* Connection pooling with aggregate transforms of your connections (that's a
  fancy way of saying it uses Enumerable in the Pools). It can be responsible
  for n segmented pools which relate to different logical databases.
* Native client binding *and* interpolated binding for databases that do not
  support it.
* Don't like our driver? No one's requiring you to use it -- RDBI drivers
  aren't coupled with RDBI in any way.
* Result *drivers* can be used to transform your output to whatever you need --
  never write a transformation skeleton again.
* Result *handles* can be used to work with results like real data structures.
  Rewind them, ask the database to re-query the data, select a struct then select
  an array (*without* requerying), select n items at a time as tuples (which
  may be more than one or less than all).

Aaaaaand here are some things RDBI won't do:

* RDBI won't write your queries for you. (We have libraries that use RDBI for that)
* RDBI won't dictate your schema. It won't make you a rockstar and won't
  prevent you from being stupid or clever. It won't save you tons of time
  because you can't be bothered to think about how you access your data.
* Do not taunt RDBI.

== I'd like an example

Hokay:

  dbh = RDBI.connect(:SQLite3, :database => ":memory:")
  dbh.execute("create table foo (bar integer, baz varchar)")
  dbh.prepare("insert into foo (bar, baz) values (?, ?)") do |sth|
    sth.execute(1, "foo")
    sth.execute(2, "bar")
    sth.execute(3, "quux")
  end

  result = dbh.execute("select * from foo")
  result.fetch(:first) # [1, "foo"]

  # gettin' crazy with method chaining

  dbh.execute("select * from foo").fetch(2) # [[1, "foo"], [2, "bar"]]

  # result drivers!

  result = dbh.execute("select * from foo")

  # select iteratively, then rewind to the first item:
  result.fetch(2)
  result.rewind

  # change the way the results are presented:
  result.as(:CSV).fetch(2) # '1,"foo"\n2,"bar"\n'
  str = result.as(:Struct).fetch(:first)
  str.bar # 1
  str.baz # "foo"

  #
  # gettin' jiggy wit it
  #
  result.rewind

  # select a single item in CSV format
  csv = result.fetch(:first, :CSV)

  # get the whole thing as an array of structs, keyed by column
  ary_of_struct = result.as(:Struct).fetch(:all)

  # as() automagically rewinds for you, so select twice for multi-dimension
  # presentations:
  ary = result.as(:Array).fetch(:all)

  dbh.disconnect

== Yes, I'd like to see even more awesome:

  5.times do
    RDBI.connect_cached(:SQLite3, :database => ":memory:") 
  end

  # omg! this handle is really already connected!
  dbh = RDBI.connect_cached(:SQLite3, :database => ":memory:")

  # finer-grained control via RDBI::Pool:
  # 2 connections:
  pool = RDBI::Pool.new("my_pool_name", [:SQLite3, :database => ":memory:"], 2)

  # zomg!
  dbh = pool.get_dbh

  # oh lordy lord! still 2 connections
  10.times { pool.get_dbh }

  pool.disconnect # want to guess what this does?
  pool.reconnect  # or this?

  pool.resize(10) # want to see what that above loop does now?

== Thinking of Contributing?

* Fork the project: http://github.com/RDBI
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Please add tests for it, or indicate there are none. Patches without tests
  will get integrated slower and must be very compelling.
* We use jeweler for our repository management -- patches that mess with this will be rejected regardless of merit.
* If you fork it permanently, be prepared to support it; we won't.

== Want to chat?

* #ruby-dbi on irc.freenode.net
* rdbi-devel@groups.google.com - for developers

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Erik Hollensbe. See LICENSE for details.
